Mimir 2.4 release notes (#3104)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/release-notes/v2.4.md

---
title: "Grafana Mimir version 2.4 release notes"
menuTitle: "V2.4 release notes"
description: "Release notes for Grafana Mimir version 2.4"
weight: 300
---

# Grafana Mimir version 2.4 release notes

Grafana Labs is excited to announce version 2.4 of Grafana Mimir.

The highlights that follow include the top features, enhancements, and bugfixes in this release. For the complete list of changes, see the [changelog](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

**Note**: If you are upgrading from Grafana Mimir 2.3, review the [list of important changes](#important-changes) that follow.

## Features and enhancements

- **Query-scheduler ring-based service discovery**:
  The [query-scheduler]({{< relref "../operators-guide/architecture/components/query-scheduler/index.md" >}}) is an optional, stateless component that retains a queue of queries to execute, and distributes the workload to available queriers. The use the query-scheduler, query-frontends and queriers are required to discover the addresses of the query-scheduler instances.

>   Other than the DNS-based service discovery, Mimir 2.4 introduces the ring-based service discovery for the query-scheduler. When enabled, the query-schedulers join their own hash ring (similar to other Mimir components), and the query-frontends and queriers discover query-scheduler instances via the ring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In addition to DNS-based service discovery, Mimir 2.4 introduces the ring-based service discovery for the query-scheduler. When enabled, the query-schedulers join their own hash ring (similar to other Mimir components), and the query-frontends and queriers discover query-scheduler instances via the ring.
```
Do you mean to say, "As an alternative to"? I kind of think so, but you decide. :)

>   The ring-based service discovery makes easier to setup the query-scheduler in environments where you can't easily define a DNS entry resolving to the running query-scheduler instances. Refer to [query-scheduler configuration]({{< relref "../operators-guide/architecture/components/query-scheduler/index.md#configuration" >}}) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Ring-based service discovery makes it easier to set up the query-scheduler in environments where you can't easily define a DNS entry that resolves to the running query-scheduler instances. For more information, refer to [query-scheduler configuration]({{< relref "../operators-guide/architecture/components/query-scheduler/index.md#configuration" >}}).
```

> - **New API endpoint exposing per-tenant limits**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **New API endpoint exposes per-tenant limits**:
```

>   Mimir 2.4 introduces a new API endpoint, available on all Mimir components that load the runtime configuration, exposing the limits for the authenticated tenant. This new API endpoint can be used when developing custom integrations with Mimir that require looking up the actual limits applied on a given tenant. Refer to [Get tenant limits]({{< relref "../operators-guide/reference-http-api/index.md#get-tenant-limits" >}}) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Mimir 2.4 introduces a new API endpoint that is available on all Mimir components that load the runtime configuration, and that exposes the limits for the authenticated tenant. You can use this new API endpoint when developing custom integrations with Mimir that require looking up the actual limits that are applied on a given tenant. For more information, refer to [Get tenant limits]({{< relref "../operators-guide/reference-http-api/index.md#get-tenant-limits" >}}).
```

Reviewer: Per our DMs, changing the suggestion now. :)

- **New TLS configuration options**:

>   Mimir 2.4 introduces new options to configure the accepted TLS cipher suites and minimum version for the HTTP and gRPC clients used between Mimir components, or by Mimir to communicate to external services (e.g. Consul or etcd).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Mimir 2.4 introduces new options to configure the accepted TLS cipher suites, and the minimum versions for the HTTP and gRPC clients that are used between Mimir components, or by Mimir to communicate to external services such as Consul or etcd.
```

>   These new configuration options can be used to override the default TLS settings and meet your security policies. Refer to [Securing Grafana Mimir communications with TLS]({{< relref "../operators-guide/secure/securing-communications-with-tls.md" >}}) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can use these new configuration options to override the default TLS settings and meet your security policy requirements. For more information, refer to [Securing Grafana Mimir communications with TLS]({{< relref "../operators-guide/secure/securing-communications-with-tls.md" >}}).
```
Do you mean "... and meet your security ..." or "... to meet your security ..."?

- **Maximum range query length limit**:

>   Mimir 2.4 introduces the new configuration option `-query-frontend.max-total-query-length` to limit the maximum range query length, computed as the query's `end` minus `start` timestamp. This limit is enforced in the query-frontend and defaults to `-store.max-query-length` if unset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Mimir 2.4 introduces the new configuration option `-query-frontend.max-total-query-length` to limit the maximum range query length, which is computed as the query's `end` minus `start` timestamp. This limit is enforced in the query-frontend and defaults to `-store.max-query-length` if unset.
```

  The new configuration option allows you to set different limits between the received query maximum length (`-query-frontend.max-total-query-length`) and the maximum length of partial queries after splitting and sharding (`-store.max-query-length`).

### Helm chart improvements

> The Mimir Helm chart is the best way to install Mimir on Kubernetes. As part of the Mimir 2.4 release, we’re also releasing version 3.2 of the Mimir Helm chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `mimir-distributed` Helm chart is the best way to install Mimir on Kubernetes. As part of the Mimir 2.4 release, we’re also releasing version 3.2 of the `mimir-distributed` Helm chart.
```

not sure what we've used in other release notes, but that's how we refer to it in docs. It's less ambiguous which chart this means.

Notable enhancements follow. For the full list of changes, see the [Helm chart changelog](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/tree/main/operations/helm/charts/mimir-distributed/CHANGELOG.md).

- Added support for [topologySpreadContraints](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/topology-spread-constraints/).

> - Replaced the default anti affinity rules with topologySpreadContraints for all components which puts less restrictions on where kubernetes can run pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Replaced the default anti-affinity rules with topologySpreadContraints for all components which puts less restrictions on where Kubernetes can run pods.
```

> - Replaced the default anti affinity rules with topologySpreadContraints for all components which puts less restrictions on where kubernetes can run pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Replaced the default anti-affinity rules with topology spread contraints for all components, which puts fewer restrictions on where kubernetes can run pods.
```

> - **Important**: if you are not using the sizing plans (small.yaml, large.yaml, capped-small.yaml, capped-large.yaml) in production, you must reintroduce pod affinity rules for the store-gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Important**: if you are not using the sizing plans (`small.yaml`, `large.yaml`, `capped-small.yaml`, `capped-large.yaml`) in production, you must reintroduce pod affinity rules for the store-gateway.
```

>   Merge the following to your custom values file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Merge the following with your custom values file:
```

>   Merge the following to your custom values file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Merge the following configuration into your custom values file:
```

  ```yaml
  store_gateway:
    affinity:
      podAntiAffinity:
        requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          - labelSelector:
              matchExpressions:
                - key: target
                  operator: In
                  values:
                    - store-gateway
            topologyKey: "kubernetes.io/hostname"
          - labelSelector:
              matchExpressions:
                - key: app.kubernetes.io/component
                  operator: In
                  values:
                    - store-gateway
            topologyKey: "kubernetes.io/hostname"
  ```

> - Updated the anti affinity rules in the sizing plans (small.yaml, large.yaml, capped-small.yaml, capped-large.yaml) to account for the relaxed default rules.

Reviewer 2: Can you be more specific? 

```suggestion
- Updated the anti affinity rules in the sizing plans (small.yaml, large.yaml, capped-small.yaml, capped-large.yaml). The sizing plans now enforce that no two pods of the ingester, store-gateway, or alertmanager StatefulSets are scheduled on the same Node. Pods from different StaatefulSets can share a Node.
```

> - Updated the anti affinity rules in the sizing plans (small.yaml, large.yaml, capped-small.yaml, capped-large.yaml) to account for the relaxed default rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Updated the anti-affinity rules in the sizing plans (`small.yaml`, `large.yaml`, `capped-small.yaml`, `capped-large.yaml`) to account for the relaxed default rules.
```

> - Support for Openshift Route definition for nginx has been added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Support for Openshift Route resource for nginx has been added.
```

> - Support for Openshift Route definition for nginx has been added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added support for Openshift Route definition for nginx.
```

## Important changes

> In Grafana Mimir 2.4 we have changed the default values of the following configuration options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Grafana Mimir 2.4, the default values of the following configuration options have changed:
```

> - `-distributor.remote-timeout` has been changed from `20s` to `2s`.
> - `-distributor.forwarding.request-timeout` has been changed from `10s` to `2s`.
> - `-blocks-storage.tsdb.head-compaction-concurrency` has been changed from 5 to 1.
> - The hash ring heartbeat period for distributors, ingesters, rulers and compactors has been increased from `5s` to `15s`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-distributor.remote-timeout` has changed from `20s` to `2s`.
- `-distributor.forwarding.request-timeout` has changed from `10s` to `2s`.
- `-blocks-storage.tsdb.head-compaction-concurrency` has changed from `5` to `1`.
- The hash-ring heartbeat period for distributors, ingesters, rulers, and compactors has increased from `5s` to `15s`.
```

> With Grafana Mimir 2.4 we have enabled the [anonymous usage statistics tracking]({{< relref "../operators-guide/configure/about-anonymous-usage-statistics-reporting.md" >}}) by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Grafana Mimir 2.4, the [anonymous usage statistics tracking]({{< relref "../operators-guide/configure/about-anonymous-usage-statistics-reporting.md" >}}) is enabled by default.
```
